The President:
Hi, everybody.
Our top priority as a country
right now should be doing
everything we can to grow
our economy and create good,
middle class jobs.
And yet, less than
one week from now,
Congress is poised to allow
a series of arbitrary,
automatic budget cuts that
will do the exact opposite.
They'll slow our economy.
They'll eliminate good jobs.
They'll leave many families who
are already stretched to the
limit scrambling to
figure out what to do.
But here's the thing: these
cuts don't have to happen.
Congress can turn them
off anytime with just a
little compromise.
They can pass a balanced
plan for deficit reduction.
They can cut spending
in a smart way,
and close wasteful tax
loopholes for the well-off
and well-connected.
Unfortunately, it appears that
Republicans in Congress have
decided that instead
of compromising --
instead of asking anything of
the wealthiest Americans --
they'd rather let these
cuts fall squarely on the
middle class.
And here's what
that choice means:
Once these cuts take effect,
thousands of teachers and
educators will be laid off, and
tens of thousands of parents
will have to scramble to find
child care for their kids.
Air traffic controllers and
airport security will see
cutbacks, causing delays
across the country.
Even President Bush's director
of the National Institutes of
Health says these cuts will
set back medical science for
a generation.
Already, the threat of these
cuts has forced the Navy to
delay the deployment of an
aircraft carrier to the Persian
Gulf -- affecting our ability
to respond to threats in an
unstable part of the world.
And just this week, the Pentagon
announced that if these cuts go
through, almost 800,000
defense employees --
the equivalent of every person
in Miami and Cleveland combined
-- will be forced to
take unpaid leave.
That's what this choice means.
Are Republicans in Congress
really willing to let these cuts
fall on our kids' schools and
mental health care just to
protect tax loopholes
for corporate jet owners?
Are they really willing to slash
military health care and the
border patrol just because they
refuse to eliminate tax breaks
for big oil companies?
Are they seriously prepared to
inflict more pain on the middle
class because they refuse to ask
anything more of those at the
very top?
These are the questions
Republicans in Congress need to
ask themselves.
And I'm hopeful they'll
change their minds.
Because the American people have
worked too hard for too long to
see everything they've built
undone by partisan recklessness
in Washington.
Instead of these reckless,
unbalanced cuts,
I believe we should work
together to build on the more
than $2.5 trillion in
deficit reduction we've
already achieved.
We should do it in
a balanced way --
with smart spending
cuts, entitlement reform,
and tax reform.
That's my plan.
It's got tough
cuts, tough reforms,
and asks more of the
wealthiest Americans.
It's on the White House
website for everyone to see.
And it requires Democrats and
Republicans to meet half way to
resolve the problem.
That's what the
American people expect.
And that's what you deserve.
We just need Republicans in
Washington to come around.
Because we need their help to
finish the job of reducing our
deficit in a smart way that
doesn't hurt our economy or
our people.
After all, as we
learned in the 1990s,
nothing shrinks the deficit
faster than a growing economy
that creates good,
middle-class jobs.
That has to be
our driving focus.
That has to be our North Star.
Making America a
magnet for good jobs.
Equipping our people with
the skills required to
fill those jobs.
Making sure your hard work
leads to a decent living.
That's what this city should
be focused on like a laser.
And I'm going to keep pushing
folks here to remember that.
Thanks so much.